text conventions:
<> = text placeholder
<text> = text to be replaced
<--text--> = note to be acted on

Article Presentation Notes:

Introduction:
	<--should have this section before objectives, since we should introduce non-standard nature of article-->
	Article in _The Oxford Handbook of Singing_

	Authors:
		Sandra E. Trehub:
			PhD in Psychology obtained from McGill in 1973
			Professor Emerita with the University of Toronto
			Much of her research was focused on maternal singin and its impacto on infant and childhood development

		Helga Rut Gudmundsdottir:
			Associate Professor of Music Educatioin at the University of Iceland
			She teaches early childhood music methods and music pedagogy for elementary and middle school.

	An investigation into:
		The impact of singing on infant development and emotional state
		The role of mothers as a mentor for children both through the use of music and to teach music
		Infants' perception of music and ability to detect changes in musical properties

Objectives:
/*
	Detail the impact of mother's singing on young children
	Not a research work itself, instead a discussion work
*/
	- Review the literature surrounding the materinal activity of singing to a child
	- Observe and catalog the emotional response of a child to maternal song

Research Questions:
	(1)What kinds of songs are usually sung to infants?
	(2)When are infants usually sung to?
	(3)What mannerisms or methods are used when singing to infants, and how does this differ from non-infant-directed singing?
	(4)How do infants respond to singing?
	(5)To what extent can infants detect changes in musical properties?
	(6)What stages do children go through in learning to sing?
	(7)Are all mothers singing mentors?

Literature Review:
	[juhani]
	Studies of informal singing in adulthood and childhood usually concerned with pitch accuracy and sometimes timing accuracy (Dalla Bella et al. 2007; Pfordresher et al. 2010; Welch 1985)
	Studies of maternal singing focus on expressive features that convey maternal feelings or intentions (Rock et al. 1999; Trehub et al. 1997) and consequences for infants (Masataka 1999; Trainor 1996; Trainor et al. 1997)
	Visual gestures are integral part of maternal singing since usually occurs in face-to-face contexts (Longhi 2009)
	Infants', toddlers' reproduction of maternal songs may be largely motivated by propensity for imitation (Gergely and Csibra 2006; Over and Carpenter 2013)

Methodology:
	Literature Review

Results and Discussion:
	What kinds of songs are usually sung to infants?
		[juhani]
		[Question]:What kinds of songs are usually sung to infants?
		Depends on the culture
		In cultures where the mother has high physical contact with the infant (developing nation), lullabies seem to be most commonly sung
		In cultures where childproofing and safe devices (swings, seats, bouncers) let vocal and visual play happen with less physical contact, mothers talk much more than sing, and when singing, usually choose play songs and sometimes lullabies for pre-sleep routines
		Despite knowing many children's songs, mothers usually only sing a few (often, many repeats), claim they are singing their "infant's favourites"
	When are infants usually sung to?
		<>
	What mannerisms or methods are used when singing to infants, and how does this differ from non-infant-directed singing?
		<>
	How do infants respond to singing?
		[juhani]
		Newborns, 6mo are more attentive to maternal singing - listen longer when unfamiliar women sing in maternal style than non-maternal style
		Similar listening disposition in hearing newborns with deaf parents "suggests innate bias for positive vocal expressiveness"
		Infant choice of listening to unfamiliar person who speaks/sings in foreign language is determined by happy-sounding qualities instead of musical/speech status
		Live maternal singing modulates infant stress arousal - reduction for infants with higher levels, increase in infants with lower levels
		[Question]:What happens when a distressed infant is sung to in a motherly way?
		When 10mo infants are acutely distressed, stress arousal and distress are reduced more rapidly, more completely by multimodal maternal singing than multimodal maternal speech
		Playful/arousing maternal singing more effective than soothing maternal singing - infants become progressively more aroused by mothers' rhythmic singing, seems to offer distraction from distress
	To what extent can infants detect changes in musical properties?
		[juhani]
		After hearing a brief melody several times, infants can detect small pitch change (one semitone) in single note of a melody
		Pitch contour of melody (pattern of directional changes) seems to be most important to infants
		Sometimes can even detect interval changes when melodic contour remains the same
		Detect changes in rhythmic grouping even in context of concurrent tempo changes - focus on relative duration instead of absolute, like adults
		More readily detect pitch or timing changes in melodies with "good" rhythms than with "bad" rhythms - could be inherent preference for temporal regularity
		More accurate at detecting timing changes in patterns with duple meter than with triple meter - could be greater exposure to duple meter or greater simplicity of duple meter
		Perception of metrically ambiguous pattern influenced by pattern of movement they experience while listening - bounced on every second beat responded to duple version as familiar, bounced every third respond to triple version as familiar
		Starting at 6-7mo, spontaneous movement to rhythmic music becomes increasingly common, but movement is not coordinated with music
		Adults readily detect small pitch change (less than semitone) in music based on familiar major scale, but fail to detect similar change in music based on unfamiliar scale
		[Question]:Young infants go through a similar process learning sounds music as they take through learning sounds of language. What do you think this implies for infants given tests like this one?
		9mo infants detect both types of changes
		Western adults detect metrical changes in context of Balkan music with simple meter but not complex (non-Western) meter
		By 12mo, infants performed the same way, but knowledge is "fragmentary and superficial" rather than "deeply entrenched" like adults - 12mo can still outperform on complex meter tasks
		"In effect, six-month-olds outperformed adults on a task involving complex meter, and 12-month-olds learned the task more readily than adults."
	What stages do children go through in learning to sing?
		<>
	Are all mothers singing mentors?
		Middle-class mothers typically sing to infants even if not inclined to sing in other contexts
		Some mothers sing to infants infrequently, if at all
		Factors associated with diminished talking to infants also associated with diminished singing to infants (poverty, depression, low educational attainment, etc.)
		<dramatically less input from socially disadvantaged families>
		Limited exposure to maternal singing may reflect limited caregiving (one-on-one interaction, sensitivity to emotional needs)
		[Question]:What do you think happens for singing mentorship when the mother cannot sing - i.e. deaf signing parents?
		Deaf signing mothers do not sing or talk to infants, but provide other sensitive one-on-one interaction
		Signed communication with infants has slower tempo, more exaggerated movements, which is highly engaging to infants
		Infants of deaf signing parents receive rhythmic dance-like gestures instead of rhythmic singing
		Sensitive mothering can occur without maternal speech/singing as long as there are other methods to communicate expressively with infant

Conclusion:
	(1)<>
	(2)Primarily when at play, secondarily during routines (diaper changing, feeding, etc.)
	(3)Often smiling, gives a "happier" sound/conveys happiness; increased usage of gestures; <>
	(4)Infant stress is modulated, happy infants become happier, distressed infants become happy
	(5)<>
	(6)<>
	(7)Yes, in a sense. While not always using vocal interaction (deaf family), sign language and other gestures towards the child are more rythmic than when interacting with adults
	Children (especially infants) acquire music similarly to how they acquire language
		<very early age> can notice changes in musical properties in both Western and non-Western music, Western children quickly lose this ability
		<>
	<>
